# webRTC-notes

WebRTC = Web Real-Time Communication

## Overview
* Used to find a peer to peer path to exchange video and audio in an efficient and low latency manner.
* Standardized API
* Enables rich communications between browsers

General Steps:
1. A wants to connect to B.
2. A finds out all possible ways the public can connect to it.
3. B finds out all possible ways the public can connect to it.
4. A and B signal this session information via other means (WhatsApp, QR, Tweet, WebSockets, HTTP Fetch, etc)
5. A connects to B via the most optimal path.
6. A & B also exchange their supported media and security.

## NAT  (Network Address Translation)
* Different translation methods: One to One NAT (Full-cone NAT), Address restricted NAT, Port restricted NAT, Symmetric NAT.
* WebRTC does not like Symmetric NAT.
* One to One NAT (Full cone NAT) - Packets to external IP:port on the router always map to internal IP:port without exceptions.
* Address Restricted NAT - Packets to external IP:port on the router always maps to internal IP:port as long as source address from packet matches the table (regardless of port). If it has communicated with the host before it is allowed.
* Port Restricted NAT - Packets to external IP:port on the router always map to internal IP:port as long as source address and port from the packet matches the table. If it has communicated with this host:port before it is allowed

## STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT)
* Tells me my public IP address/port through NAT.
* Works for Full-cone, Port, and Address restricted NAT. Does not work for symmetric NAT.
* STUN server port 3478 (5349 for TLS)
* Cheap to maintain.
* Stun request cycle:
	1. Packet generated to request STN.
	2. Router receives it and does NAT’ing.
	3. STUN server receives it and sends a packet back with the IP/port.
	4. It goes to the router and then back to the originating request client.

## TURN (Traversal Using Relays around NAT)
* In case of Symmetric NAT we use TURN.
* It is just a server that relays packets.
* TURN default server port 3478 (5349 for TLS)
* Expensive to maintain and run

## ICE (Interactive Connectivity Establishment)
* ICE collects all available candidates (local IP addresses, reflexive addresses (STUN addresses) and relayed addresses (TURN addresses). Collects all the way something can be connected to.
* Possible connection pathways are called ICE candidates
* All the collected addresses are then sent to the remote peer via SDP.

## SDP (Session Description Protocol)
* A format that describes the ICE candidates, networking options, media options, security options, etc
* Not really a protocol but more a format.
* Most important concept in WebRTC.
* The goal is to take the SDP generated by a user and send it in some way to the other party.
